### Get session config
# Returns everything the FE needs to render the "create session" form:
# place types, sort options, and radius constraints (in miles).
# Called once when the create-session page loads.

GET https://{{choosee-api-host}}/v1/sessions/config HTTP/1.1

# Response 200:
# {
#   "placeTypes": [
#     { "value": "restaurant", "display": "Any restaurant", "defaultType": true, "canBeExcluded": false, "mustBeSingleType": true },
#     { "value": "acai_shop", "display": "Acai shop" },
#     { "value": "fast_food_restaurant", "display": "Fast food", "defaultExclude": true },
#     ...
#   ],
#   "sortOptions": [
#     { "value": "POPULARITY", "label": "Most popular", "description": "Highest rated first" },
#     { "value": "DISTANCE", "label": "Closest", "description": "Nearest to you" },
#     { "value": "ALL", "label": "Both", "description": "Popular & nearby" }
#   ],
#   "radius": { "minMiles": 1, "maxMiles": 30 }
# }

###

### Get reverse geocode
# Converts lat/lng coordinates to a street address.
# Requires reCAPTCHA token for unauthenticated access.
# Authenticated variant: GET /v1/reverse-geocode/authed (Cognito JWT, no reCAPTCHA required)

GET https://{{choosee-api-host}}/v1/reverse-geocode?latitude=38.897957&longitude=-77.03656 HTTP/1.1
x-recaptcha-token: {{choosee-api-recaptcha-token}}

# Response 200:
# { "address": "1600 Pennsylvania Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20500, USA" }
#
# Response 400: missing/invalid latitude or longitude
# Response 403: reCAPTCHA score too low
# Response 404: no address found for the given coordinates

###

### Create session
# Starts a new restaurant-picking session. Returns immediately with a sessionId;
# the actual Google Places lookup runs asynchronously in a separate Lambda.
# Poll GET /sessions/{sessionId} until isReady=true or errorMessage is set.
#
# radiusMiles: search radius in miles (min/max from GET /sessions/config)
# rankBy: "POPULARITY" | "DISTANCE" | "ALL" (from GET /sessions/config sortOptions)
# type: array of place type values (from GET /sessions/config placeTypes)
# exclude: optional array of place type values to exclude
# latitude/longitude: optional — both or neither. If omitted, address is geocoded.
#
# Authenticated variant: POST /v1/sessions/authed (Cognito JWT)

POST https://{{choosee-api-host}}/v1/sessions HTTP/1.1
content-type: application/json
x-recaptcha-token: {{choosee-api-recaptcha-token}}

{
  "address": "Columbia, MO 65203, USA",
  "type": ["restaurant"],
  "exclude": ["breakfast_restaurant"],
  "radiusMiles": 2.33,
  "rankBy": "POPULARITY"
}

# Response 202:
# { "sessionId": "fuzzy-penguin" }
#
# Response 400: missing address, empty type array, invalid radiusMiles/rankBy
# Response 403: reCAPTCHA score too low

###

### Get session by ID
# Returns the current state of a session. Poll this after creating a session
# until isReady=true (success) or errorMessage is non-null (failure).

GET https://{{choosee-api-host}}/v1/sessions/fuzzy-penguin HTTP/1.1

# Response 200:
# {
#   "sessionId": "fuzzy-penguin",
#   "address": "Columbia, MO 65203, USA",
#   "location": { "latitude": 38.9517, "longitude": -92.3341 },
#   "currentRound": 0,
#   "bracket": [[["choice-a", "choice-b"], ["choice-c", "choice-d"]]],
#   "byes": [null],
#   "isReady": true,
#   "errorMessage": null,
#   "users": ["brave-tiger"],
#   "winner": null,
#   "expiration": 1712448000,
#   "type": ["restaurant"],
#   "exclude": ["breakfast_restaurant"],
#   "radius": 3750,
#   "rankBy": "POPULARITY",
#   "totalRounds": 2
# }
#
# Note: radius is stored in meters internally.
# While session is loading (isReady=false), response also includes:
#   "timeoutAt": 1712361600000  (ms timestamp — omitted once session is ready)
# totalRounds is 0 until the async Lambda sets it.
#
# Response 404: session not found or expired

###

### Get choices for session
# Returns all restaurant choices discovered by the async Google Places lookup.
# Only available after the session is ready (isReady=true).

GET https://{{choosee-api-host}}/v1/sessions/fuzzy-penguin/choices HTTP/1.1

# Response 200:
# {
#   "choice-a": {
#     "choiceId": "choice-a",
#     "name": "Joe's Pizza",
#     "formattedAddress": "123 Main St, Columbia, MO 65203",
#     "formattedPhoneNumber": "(573) 555-1234",
#     "internationalPhoneNumber": "+15735551234",
#     "priceLevel": "PRICE_LEVEL_MODERATE",
#     "rating": 4.5,
#     "ratingsTotal": 200,
#     "photos": ["https://maps.googleapis.com/..."],
#     "openHours": ["Monday: 11:00 AM – 10:00 PM"],
#     "types": ["Pizza", "Italian"],
#     "website": "https://joespizza.example.com"
#   },
#   "choice-b": { ... }
# }
#
# Response 404: session not found

###

### Get users for session

GET https://{{choosee-api-host}}/v1/sessions/fuzzy-penguin/users HTTP/1.1

# Response 200:
# [
#   {
#     "userId": "brave-tiger",
#     "name": "Alice",
#     "phone": "+15551234567",
#     "subscribedRounds": [1],
#     "votes": [["choice-a", null]],
#     "textsSent": 0,
#     "expiration": 1712448000
#   }
# ]
#
# Response 404: session not found or expired

###

### Create user (join session)
# No request body required. Creates a new user in the session.

POST https://{{choosee-api-host}}/v1/sessions/fuzzy-penguin/users HTTP/1.1

# Response 201:
# {
#   "userId": "brave-tiger",
#   "name": null,
#   "phone": null,
#   "subscribedRounds": [],
#   "votes": [[]],
#   "textsSent": 0,
#   "expiration": 1712448000
# }
#
# Response 400: max users reached (message includes limit)
# Response 404: session not found or expired

###

### Update user (name, phone, or vote)
# JSON Patch format. Allowed ops: replace, add, test.
# Allowed paths: /name, /phone, /votes/{round}/{matchupIndex}
#
# If all users have voted all matchups, the round closes automatically.

PATCH https://{{choosee-api-host}}/v1/sessions/fuzzy-penguin/users/brave-tiger HTTP/1.1
content-type: application/json

[
  { "op": "replace", "path": "/name", "value": "Alice" }
]

# Example: set phone
# [{ "op": "replace", "path": "/phone", "value": "+15551234567" }]
#
# Example: submit vote for round 0, matchup 0
# [{ "op": "replace", "path": "/votes/0/0", "value": "choice-a" }]
#
# Response 200: updated user object
# Response 400: disallowed path, name > 50 chars, invalid phone, vote choice not in matchup
# Response 404: session or user not found
# Response 409: concurrent round advance conflict

###

### Close round
# Advances the bracket to the next round or determines a winner.
# roundId is a path parameter.

POST https://{{choosee-api-host}}/v1/sessions/fuzzy-penguin/rounds/0/close HTTP/1.1

# Response 200 (new round generated):
# { "sessionId": "fuzzy-penguin", "currentRound": 1, "bracket": [...], "winner": null, ... }
#
# Response 200 (winner determined):
# { "sessionId": "fuzzy-penguin", "currentRound": 1, "winner": "choice-a", ... }
#
# Response 200 (idempotent — roundId < currentRound): returns current session state
#
# Response 400: roundId does not match currentRound, session not ready
# Response 404: session not found or expired
# Response 409: concurrent round close (condition expression failure)

###

### Subscribe to round notifications
# Subscribes a user to receive an SMS when a new round starts.
# User must have a phone number set first.

POST https://{{choosee-api-host}}/v1/sessions/fuzzy-penguin/rounds/1/subscribe HTTP/1.1
content-type: application/json

{
  "userId": "brave-tiger",
  "roundId": 1
}

# Response 200: updated user object (subscribedRounds includes the new round)
#
# Response 400: user has no phone number set, invalid roundId
# Response 404: session or user not found

###

### Share session via SMS
# Creates a new user with the recipient's phone and sends an SMS with a join link.
# Path includes the sharing user's ID for rate-limit tracking.

POST https://{{choosee-api-host}}/v1/sessions/fuzzy-penguin/users/brave-tiger/share HTTP/1.1
content-type: application/json

{
  "phone": "+15559876543",
  "type": "text"
}

# Response 201:
# { "userId": "clever-fox" }
#
# Response 400: invalid phone format, max users reached
# Response 404: session not found, sharing user not found, or expired
# Response 429: SMS rate limit exceeded (5 texts per user)
# Response 500: SMS send failed (userId of created user included in error body)
